# Framework Destop Tile Generator

## License

Copyright © 2025 Charles Guldenschuh.  Licensed under CC BY 4.0.
To view a copy of this license, visit:

        [https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/]()

Included material:

- FRAMEWORK_DESKTOP_BLANK_TILE.stl from:
  
      [https://github.com/FrameworkComputer/Framework-Desktop.git]()
  
  © 2025 by Framework Computer Inc is licensed under CC BY 4.0.er Inc is licensed under CC BY 4.0.

- lib_cutouts.scad (used by honeycomb) from:
  
      [https://github.com/.pul1522/OpenScad-Projects.git]()
  
  © 2019, MIT License

## What is it?

This is an OpenSCAD script to generate a handful of different tiles
for the Framework Desktop front panel.  Additionally, it can generate
multi-tile honeycomb or blank panels.

## Why is it?

* I had color preferences that weren't available from Framework
* I wanted some logo tiles that weren't available
* I'm a cheap SOB with time on my hands

## Caveats

1. At the time of this writing, I do not have access to a Framework
   Desktop or any of the tiles.  All dimensions are either from the published
   drawing, or inferred (possibly incorrectly) by me.  I make no claim that
   tiles generated from this script actually fit in a Framework faceplate.
   When I recieve my system, I will make any corrections required.
2. Framework Computer has not reviewed and is not responsible for the use
   of tiles generated by this script.
3. The author assumes no responsibility for the use of this script.  To
   the best of my knowledge and testing, these tiles are akin to Legos in
   possible damage...
4. If you read the code, don't judge me... I'm retired and sometimes impatient
   with OpenSCAD, and so have generously sprinkled "magic" constants through out
   the script.  It'll get cleaned up, eventually, maybe.

## Usage

Easiest:

1. Place all of the files in one directory.
2. Open Framework_tiles_1.scad with OpenSCAD.
3. Open the **"Build Selection"** customizer section; All selections EXCEPT
   **bHoneycombMulti**, and **bMBlank** are single tiles.
4. At the top of this sections are two important items:  bMount selects
   whether or not the mounting tabs are generated, and Mount_style slects
   either fully skeletonized, "blocking", or solid style mounts are generated (see Tips
   section below)
5. "Build size parameters" has a few things for special purposes:
   - **TFACE** is the thickness of the face of the tile.  My intention is that this makes the tile flush with the front of the faceplate.  See Caveats.
   - **TBORDER** is the border around the outside edge of the tile.  Mostly useful for the slat style tiles and the sunburst. It has an upper limit that is totally arbitrary.  Setting to zero may give an effect you prefer.
   - **GRIDCNT** is either the number of slats, or the number of empty spaces. Don't remember which and to lazy to look.

## Tips

1. If you are printing multiple tiles, set the print sequence to **"By object"**; you'll
   have to space them out, and will get fewer to a build plate.  You'll thank me when
   one lifts from the build plate...

2. DO NOT USE THE HONEYCOMB MULTI TILE!  The rendering is HORRIBLY slow, and
   there is a better, faster way.
   
   - Generate a multi-tile blank of the size desired.
   
   - Bring that .stl file into your slicer.
   
   - Right-click on the object and select "**Height Range Modifier"**
   
   - Set the range to start at 0mm and go to 1mm (or to the same value as you set **"Build size parameters"->TFACE**)
   
   - Select the range, and then select  the Strength tab.  Set Top shell layers and Bottom shell layers to 0. Select "Honeycomb" as the Sparse infill pattern and set the Sparse infill density to something over 20%.  Slice the plate and you're done.
   
   There are other infill patterns that are interesting (at certain densities);
   Honeycomb3D, Quarter Cubic, and Trianges for example.

3. The **"Blocking**" mount style is a solution for a "problem" that may not exist;
   Won't know until my system arrives.  With tiles that are sparsely populated, the
   faceplate supports may show through.  This was my attempt to work around it.
   Again, it may not be a problem at all.

4. All testing done with Orca Slicer 2.3.0 and a Bambu Labs P1S.  Mostly BL PLA Basic.

## Build Variables

### The tile selecton variables

| Variable        | Use                                   |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| bBlank          | Blank tile                            |
| bHorizontal     | Horizontal slats                      |
| bDiagonal       | Diagonal slats                        |
| bCrosshatch     | Crossed horizontal and vertical slats |
| bLattice        | Crossed diagonal slats                |
| bDiamond        | Crossed horizontal and diagonal slats |
| bSunburst       | Rayed star                            |
| bHoneycomb      | Honeycomb tile                        |
| bHoneycombMulti | Multi-tile honeycomb                  |
| bMBlank         | Multi-tile blank                      |
| bFaceplate      | A full faceplate for testing fit      |

### Mounting selection

| Variable | Use                                                |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| bMount   | Add mounts to tiles; default true                  |
| bMStyle  | Type of mount; 0=skeletonized, 1=blocking, 2=solid |

NOTE: These are likely to be merged into a single bMStyle (none, skeletonized, blocking)

### Multi-tile variables

| Variable  | Use                                      |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| bHC_w     | width of honeycomb multi-tile            |
| bHC_h     | height of honeycomb  multi-tile          |
| bMB_w     | width of blank  multi-tile               |
| bMB_h     | height of blank  multi-tile              |
| bMB_style | Mount style (0=corners, 1=all, 2=select) |
| bMB_basex | vector of x locations (0-2)              |
| bMB_basey | vector of y locations (0-6)              |

NOTE: It is likely that the honeycomb and blank height and width parameters will be merged.

### Other sizing variables

| Variable | Use                                           |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| TFACE    | Height of the tile face                       |
| TBORDER  | Size of the border around the tile face [0:3] |
| GRIDCNT  | Number of slats in horizontal/diagonal tiles  |
| radi     | Inner radius for honeycomb                    |
| rado     | Outer radius for honeycomb                    |

## Command Line

You can run OpenSCAD from the command line to build selected .stl files.  How you do this is OS dependant, and I recommend an internet search.  I have an alias:

    alias oscad='flatpak run org.openscad.OpenSCAD'

Then:

    oscad -o blank.stl -D bBlank=true Framework_tiles_1.scad

will generate an .stl file for a blank tile.
